---
layout:     post
title:      "robotics, days 58 to 62"
subtitle:   "what in the world happened"
date:       2026-3-27 20:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 1
tags:
    - Robotics
---

> 有时又我觉得自己像一只小小鸟，
> 
> 想要飞却怎么样也飞不高，
> 
> 也许有一天我栖上了指头，
> 
> 却成为猎人的目标
> 
> 。。。

我是一只小，小，小小鸟。。。

-----

so much happened...... i can't even process it all rn...

*monday.*

mine works. a few intake and spindexer clogs and but have planned fixes for all.  shoot on fly works. no tuning needed at all.

other robot declared "done". no way.

*tuesday.*

fixes to robot. by this time my robot completely works. i declare done, i.e. mechanically frozen.

TB comes in and helps program other robot. by that i mean hook motors to buttons. team is quite satisfied.

there is quite a difference between that and real robot code, however.

quote from me:

> hmm
> 
> the most surreal part of it is that
> 
> i have nothing to do
> 
> to code, really i mean some stuff is worth tuning but not really
> 
> and everything i want to change is mechanical and ik i have time for it cuz
> 
> the code just works in 0 hours
> 
> idk it just feels so weird
> 
> like
> 
> i dont feel the need to take time and code the robot at all

team was supposed to decide today. agreed to postpone decision to wednesday as long as tommy was working on it.....

*wednesday.*

i made minor fixes and robot actually fully works now. actually mechanically frozen. testing. autos work.

at this point i try to convince team to do it. they disagree. they still want to work on the new robot.

TB was not here today and is projected not to be here tomorrow / rest of week / and comp. since i will be gone thurs/fri/sat the remainder of prog effort isn't enough to run two robots. they disagree...

TB OG and LXM all agreee that we should use current robot for this competition.

at this point i'm just afraid that they will be stupid and use the new robot even if it's worse, just because of the slim chance that it works and is robust.

*thursday*

there is a memo i wrote to Mentor S. I might post it someday. tl;dr instructions for current robot and some notes on current progress and what i think should be done.

anyway i leave.

at like 7pm LYT texts me:

> "robot has been perpendicular to ground since 5pm"

at like 9pm KL texts me "it's over" due to multiple (like 5?) issues including electrical and swerve issues.

it appears that new robot is working tho???

-----

even now i still don't understand what happened. the robot had been working for a week with no issues and i'm gone for a day and everything dies...

i get the feeling that if i were there it would not have happened. i'm really not sure what happened, though. i think it is likely due to a combination of negligence and skill issuing that day. but really i have no idea what happened.

i do think that it wouldn't have happened if i were there, though...

Mentor S also feels that it is strange that everything failed at once... I mean, seriously, what's the chance of this many things failing?????

at some point they decided to work on new robot, then, i guess...

and a commit message of "we win..."????? seriously??? seriously?

??????

-----

anyway today i come in and inspect the robots. new robot looks good except rack and pinion feels terrible to move.

old robot, uhhh, looks fine? but at least one swerve feels mechanically not intact (missing screw apparently?) and i'm told (and i believe) that at least one magnet is off. i'm also told shooter doesnt spin and there are all sorts of electrical errors.

anyway who ever let electrical touch the robot :skull: im so ngl i can fix everything myself.

but at this point old robot seems to be out of the question. big rip. all the time i spent on it and its all gone the one day im not here :wilted_rose: and i don't even know what happened, every explanation seems improbable to me.

well anyway to see what "done" means i ask them to boot the new robot up and run it. sure enough, the motors turn. that's literally it......

-----

well it looks approachable so i resolve to try to pull off a few miracles anyway.

so anyway 2 hours, a lot of brainpower, and $30 in claude code (perfect day for opus to be down D:) later the code is completely re-written. a few hours of testing later, and it all works, including localization, auto align, and targetting. even had some time for shooter tuning ......

(even so the old codebase was so much nicer...... the debugging utilities were so much nicer to work with)

only took me like the time from 7:30 to 5:30 to pull all this off. so like 10 hours. skipped every class except period 3 today. was even coding thru the merit finalist celebration :skull:

well this was like 3 miracles today. and like 2 more if the autos work.

i don't think the team understands how hard it is for me to pull off miracles like this... i've been doing it all season somehow :skull: if it were anyone else they quite literally wouldn't stand a chance.

well now over the entire season i've done like maybe 5 weeks of programming in the span of maybe... <24 hours?

it looks like i might be the only person who can save the team :wilted_rose:. i think i will hit Miracle Limit Exceeded soon...

its too bad i wont be there tomorrow or at lehigh... they better make worlds for me...

p.s. almost certainly going to mit now
