---
layout:     post
title:      "robotics, days 64, 65......"
subtitle:   "who won????? ??? ?? ???? ??"
date:       2026-3-31 22:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 1
tags:
    - Robotics
---

**3/29, day 64 (actually it might be off by 1 at this point but I don't care)...**

I arrive. Ahead party had already gone, well, ahead, and performed intake fixes.

the prior day they did pretty badly. well, now, i'm here...

electrical problems.

more electrical problems.

intake just didn't intake balls. apparently they designed it without accounting for bumper height. so when it ran on real bumper height (not bumpers sliding on ground like we did on friday) the intake just didn't work. this is what you get for making bumpers at competition huh.

auto problems. didn't flip for red. of course. well this is what you get for giving me like 10 hours to write a new codebase huh.

anyway its like 2nd pick of 7th. lose first ofc. lose second. 223 didnt work but we lost by penalty or something. but like if they worked we would've been wiped anyway.

lied our way into sustainability award??? wtf.

finish with like 54 dp, 46th in district. more than we deserved for sure.

LYT's big box would have done so much better.

anyway approx 30% chance of making lehigh. well anyway i'm not going.

**3/31; first meeting after comp ig**

uhhhh what to even say

so there are like a few semi obvious things to do, assuming we make lehigh

1. fix intake
2. fix intake & rack/pinion
3. copy another intake and hope it works
4. fix old robot
5. big box

imo 4>1>5>2>3

team is gonna do 1>3>2>4>5

its clear to me that old robot outperforms new robot unconditionally at lehigh...

well anyway team is gonna fail. and i dont care at this point. i really dont.

-----

anyway im tired. and i really dont want to commit that much time.

its been pretty clear to me what to do for a month now and the team just wont do it. well i'm not going to try to solo it again, regardless of how much i think i can succeed or how likely we make lehigh or whatever.

its insanity to try to solo the robot again. and i dont have the energy to do it. especially when some idiot is gonna kill it again or something...

i know it will work. im reasonably sure that this is the right course of action. but nobody will listen to me and thats fine. if they want to fail that's their choice now, id be quite insane to try to stop them at this point. ive already tried twice what makes me think i can do it a third time?

the team will do what it does. and if i want to maybe i'll program it for them. or maybe not. but at this point ive given up trying to make anything happen. maybe i should've given up in november :pensive:

