---
layout:     post
title:      "notes on visiting ftc 11697"
subtitle:   "like looking in a mirror"
date:       2026-2-20 22:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 2
tags:
    - Robotics
---

*written about events of 2/20; note: i don't remember a lot...*

visited ftc 11697 for around 1hr. here are some notes on what i saw and advised them on.

some background: ftc game this year is basically like frc rapid react 2022 (even robot to ball proportions are basically the same). but with colors.

aside on colors, they are a cool mechanic, i wish they would add it to frc. it would make programming stuff less boring and add some interesting complexity.

i should note that said team has 3 weeks until states. At 6hr/week that's the equivalent of 3 frc days, although I guess they can take robot home (frc does not have such luxuries although our team is doing it anyway). But still that's very little time.

anyway 11697 had like 2 robots, one is basically our 2022 robot with turret (v1: intake directly into linear storage to turreted shooter) and one is basically our 2021 robot (v2: intake into spindexer into shooter), but WIP (the indexer is nonfunctional). They might have diff version numbers but idr.

first thing i notice is basically like 5 people crowded around the spindexer robot (presumably like 4 of them are watching one person working, because the robot is too small and there's only enough space for one person especially with all the plates around). programmers are doing like probably nothing.

(ngl, the 4 people watching one person do something is something i see way too much in frc too)

and somehow they were complaining about prog team getting 3 hours to code the v1 robot. but like, 1) the v1 robot code should already be done?? and 2) they had the entire time to program it while mechies built v2 (presumably several months by the looks of it). And 3) there is plenty that they can code, eg shoot-on-the-fly, or autos.

In any case ~7/10 people not working is not ideal.

anyway i tell them they should have v1 being developed continuously while v2 is being built on the (quite likely) chance that they stick with v1.

-----

at some point the v2 improvement that they were doing was finished. after trying it by hand i immediately conclude it doesn't work.

tl;dr the forces acting on the ball are really not centered so it likes to slip to the side, also it is very finicky in general. its not obvious that it has the capability to work at all with some adjustment (indeed it seems like there has been a lot of adjustment which has not been successful)

after trying it in code it breaks the print, LOL well that tells you that the forces are really all sideways instead of up.

anyway i give a few suggestions, but really they have like a 20% chance of working, because this mechanism is hard to get working in general.

theoretically if they give up sorting it might be easier (they claim they have a working version without sorting but :shrug: how much do i believe that?). but if you give up sorting this entire bot is just not useful.

anyway even assuming they get it working the code to make everything work would probably take a while. plus sorting code. maybe if the v2 code just generalizes it would be faster, but even then it would take some time.

also they can't detect balls, so all this discussion is moot, how can you sort if you can't even detect the ball colors? manual would be hard due to limited visibility. if it were me I'd get rid of the limelight (limelights suck, who likes them anyway) and slap a orangepi5 with 2 arducams and run some vision pipelines (photonvision can probably handle both jobs, idk if it works in ftc, anyway it's not hard to code yourself). although probably too late for that.

-----

Anyway i go take a look at the v1 robot. it looks like someone was listening to me because programming was working on it.

The issues stated on the v1 robot was the indexer not handing the ball correctly, not fitting 3 balls, and the flywheel not having enough MOI.

upon taking a look, the indexer not handing the ball to the shooter can be fixed by adding more compression (i think it's fixed now), and not fitting 3 balls can probably be fixed by not spinning indexer motor while intaking, i think. flywheel not having enough MOI can be solved by adding MOI, it really can't be that hard to add a flywheel. i proposed extending the axle over the side, althought that might not work due to sizing. (oops i think our turret has similar issues LMAO ~~hopefully inspectors dont notice~~)

it is pretty clear that v2 isn't really better than v1 without sorting, so IDK why they are still going for v2 tbh. designers smh smh.

-----

anyway before i left they put a replacement print on the v2 robot. didn't work as expected.

So it seems like they like me :p (~~maybe i should join them for fun~~). Not that i have time to come again until it's all over probably, due to frc.

looking at this makes me realize that ftc is really just frc but a bit smaller lol. it would honestly be kinda fun to mentor the team but it's so far and I have to grind out frc.

oh well good luck, i think the team has a very good shot at worlds if the next 3 weeks are used well. sometimes I wish i could get 3 weeks of programming (actually i think i get <3 days at this point)...