---
layout:     post
title:      "usaco contest 3"
subtitle:   "\"perhaps what i need is a willingness to let everything go\", me, 2025"
date:       2026-2-21 22:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 1
tags:
    - Robotics
---

> Perhaps what I need is a willingness to let everything go
>
> -- me, around September 2025

Back when I wrote this, I was intending to talk about letting everything but grinding for USACO go.

But it appears that instead, I've let almost everything go to work on robotics.

Well anyway since last contest I haven't even bothered to look at the solutions...

-----

So I basically went to this contest blind (without enough sleep too). So what happened:

1h read problems. basically decide p1 is not possible cuz it's probably some cancer math, and p2 p3 are both doable-ish

1.5h grind out p2. tried a bunch of stuff and one of it worked. got full-2, decided it was good enough

1h try to grind out p3. nothing i try for full works, but admittedly i was trying some pretty stupid things. got 2, tried to get 4 for a bit but I tilted implementation so idk

30m grind out p1 easy subtask, the impl is a pain but not as bad as I thought. unfortunately as soon as i alt-tabbed to submit it i hit 4h which is very RIP.

I'm still pretty tilted at the like 1 second missed 100 points. rip.

Uhh pretty satisfied with this perf. Probably will make open? I think I couldn't have done that much better, except maybe not skill issue p3 subtask 2 and p1 subtask 1. But that'd be like 322 -> 450ish? which is like half a solve RIP i guess.

well anyway my camp chances are like more or less a coinflip depending on how I do on open, I guess. I don't even know how it'll work, but please be proctored well so there's no cheating :pray: I'll need all the luck I can get to make camp again.
