---
layout:     post
title:      "cpw 2026"
subtitle:   "that was fun"
date:       2026-4-22 18:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 0
tags:
    - College
    - Life
---

So MIT campus preview weekend was like apr 16-19.

apr 16.

took train to boston, got there like 4 pm. I was hosted in Next so it took like half an hour to get across campus to put my stuff down. then i went to the maia avalon event (saw social deduction games and couldn't resist). i kinda got destroyed but that was fun. then went to EC to play with locks (apparently yale locks suck). I met a lot of ppl there incl. dotted, skittles, boomyday, wavelets, etc. went to the cpw welcome event. after that went to BC to meet with some phys kids (int_user, oz, ryan g) and went to (and immediately left) a few parties. "i bet that you can't stay in there for more than 10s" anyway afterwards i head back to Next, there a few campers who decide to go biking across the bridge at midnight. I decide that i need to sleep and stay at Next, and as i'm heading into my dorm some of my hosts friends invite us to poker on 20 dollar stakes. my host stakes me which is funny (i really didnt want to lose money lmao) anyway im like up 5 which isn't bad ig.

apr 17.

i wake up at like 9 and eat breakfast at next dining. then i head over to kresge and look for something to do, but there's not much to do bc all the good events are in the evening. actually most of them are at like the same time at like 17:00 or 22:00 which is pain. i eat some breakfast then go to a keynote speech and leave at like 12. then i head to new vassar to have some lunch and play some ping pong. i also play some frisbee and win a mit disk which is nice. uhh what do i do after that? oh right i go to the academic expo and steal free merch (got like a ton of F tier merch and some D tier merch). here i meet a few campers and we go chill in simmons for a bit before going to this scuffed entrepreneur event where we try to scam our way to get money :clown:. note for the future: selling free stuff to people doesn't work. then i play some more spikeball and frisbee and then go eat dinner at simmons. then i do some more dorm exploring (macgregor, bc) and then play some pool and sleep.

apr 18.

i wake up pretty early and again there is little to do in the morning so i explore EC myself. very uhh interesting dorm. then i go to midway and walk around (wow there are a lot of build teams) then explore some more dorms (bc, new, next) and go to some dorm events (and consume a bit too much sugar). then i meet with some campers and talk a bit with hy ry and hr about random stuff. it seems like most of the campers are grinding harder than i am :pensive_clown:. anyway we have dinner with around 20 campers then go back to next to chill and play cards to like 2am. 

apr 19.

i lowk just wake up at like 10, eat breakfast, and head home lol.


