---
layout:     post
title:      "rant"
subtitle:   ":weary:"
date:       2024-9-10 20:40:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 1
tags:
    - Life
---

Didn't really do anything since the weekend (see a pattern? hmm)

not much interesting going on in school... here are the "highlights":

p3 multi, missed ak on a quiz by 0 points :skull: wrote "obviously not" after misreading the 0 point question lmao

p4 apush idek how we're supopsed to remember like 998244353 different strikes in the guilded age...

p5 ap lit im cooked its joever, definitely joever

p6 we have to write so much for labs...

p8 took the ap chem test, actually sweated it like an oly exam. then finished with 15 minutes left. (that was monday)

today I got the test back, got 11/14 on frq and 18/20 on mcq. joever. on frq i lost 3 points by writing the answer without any work :skull: then negotiated with Mr. G to get 2 more points (out of 3 full) cuz the answer is unique by linear algebra (haha)...

except that after class i realized it was not unique... it is unique up to a multiplicative factor, but that matters. Also I made like a few units mistakes on the frq. Mr. G if you see this, please don't take back the points D: Also mcq was painful, sillied 2 problems (how tf did I mark "boron has atomic number 11" as my answer wtf) well anyway that was fun, got like second or third highest in class i think? pretty good for 59 average


---

Although I did 0 cp, I did do a nonnegative amount of physics (finished Purcell ch. 4 today).

The tentative plan to ~~physics camp~~ idk at this point tbh:

1. By october finish HRK Special Relativity and Purcell ch5
2. Oct 14th ch6
3. Oct 28th ch7
4. Nov 11 ch8
5. Nov 25 ch9
6. Dec 29 ch10
7. this is bad, this isn't going to work out...

ok if i do 1 chapter a week ish I finish in middle of november

Then for the rest of november I review HRK like 3ch per week maybe

come december I have to grind usaco, then on the side I do a bit of thermo, and learn relativity + thermo on the side

janurary I start grinding tests and stuff + review mech and do some hard stuff + usaco

if I don't troll f=ma I do modern + quantum + optics then grind tests


uhhhhhhh this sounds really sketchy idk

ig i'll try to pull it off :pray:

that is if ap lit doesn't screw me over lol