---
layout:     post
title:      "how i got here"
subtitle:   "how did i get here? ??"
date:       2026-1-1 19:00:00
author:     "jasonzeng124"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
mathjax: true
alter: 1
tags:
    - Life
---

In middle school, I was more-or-less an average student (in the pool of above-average asian students). I was probably worse than most of my current friends back then too.

So how did I get here? (not intended to mean "how so orz", but more like... conditioned on my middle school self, I definitely would not have predicted any of this... and honestly I still don't know how much of this happened...)


-----


In elementary school, I was a pretty typical above-average asian kid (at our elementary/middle school districts i was like one of like three asians). I don't really remember that much, but I don't think I showed any real distinction? Like I was perhaps a bit ahead in math, could do some physics if you handheld me (you'd have to hold my hand really hard tho), but nothing unusual.

Perhaps my biggest strength was that I developed an interest for programming really early (perhaps as early as second or third grade, I don't entirely remember). At that time I just did like random projects (that didn't really work, as usual), and robotics, I think.

By like 6th grade I was perhaps at the coding ability of GPT-3? (why is this how I measure stuff?). Maybe a longer-ish attention span? But aside from being ahead at coding, I don't think I was better at anything else. I remember taking AMC 8 and, i forget how many questions I got, but it was like single digits maybe? definitely within [5, 15] as a 90% confidence interval. I also don't particularly remember having many friends in middle school either (maybe like 3?).

By like 7th grade COVID had hit, and I think most of the time I was like entirely unproductive (idek how). covid really impacted my math progress in strange ways, I think by late 7th grade I was starting to learn calculus (very slowly and I didn't really understand any of it, yet), but also my basic algebra ability was cooked (I don't think I could solve a quadratic equation until like Jan of 8th grade).

Starting around 7th grade I spent more time side questing on different programming tasks (well I did side quest earlier, but I think at this point I did perhaps... more focused / longer-time-horizon side questing?) Some stuff I remember (trying to) do include game dev, web dev, hardware dev, battlecode-esque agentic games, etc. I remember having a particular obsession with asynchronous circuits (actually I still think they would work better but this type of thing is too much engineering for me).

At this point I think I started appearing chronically online too D:. Anyway my social skills at that point were... as expected (perhaps equivalent to a certain JC). I don't think this was fixed until perhaps almost 9th grade.

At 8th grade, it appears that I had started to train for USACO (I had known about it previously but never tried). I think I also learned some physics? I feel like I definitely did less side questing at this point. I definitely didn't train too seriously, but I do remember tilting silver and complaining on USACO server. I got gold in the open contest that year, exactly on the 800 cutoff (what if I didn't get gold? more on that later).

-----

now I'm about to enter high school. I don't think my memory is any better in this sector, however.

That summer I remember... ? what do I remember? I definitely trained OI at xcamp, and trained a bit after that.

But I don't really remember what happened before.

I do remember around the time summer was almost ending, it hit me that the AMC was in like 2 months, and I didn't have any, really, comp math experience at the time. I think I started grinding comp math at that time, almost full-time? At this point I'm in 9th grade. And then about like after AMC I immediately started grinding CSES. And later some physics. And CSES grinding continued for a while until about the end of the school year, and then some in the beginning of sophomore year.

I think a lot of the motivation for my AMC grinding came from trying to catch up with the more orz kids from the other middle schools (which quickly became my friends; i also am no longer in contact with most of my middle school classmates lmao).

I did side quest on some embedded style project with some seniors then (AA and RR). Something about using YOLOv5 and haptics to guide visually impaired people. I think I got something basic working, but then the seniors senioritised and nothing ever became of that.

Later that summer I went on a trip to china.

And then more AMC grinding (I wanted to make JMO, didn't make it), more USACO/CF grinding (I was actually really dedicated to making camp at that time). And I don't really think I did a lot other than that, really, in sophomore year. Perhaps my memory is failing me. 

But anyway the rest is encoded in the blog elsewhere I think.

-----

I think wrt CS I progressed at a pretty slow (although expected; i was pretty young) rate in the beginning, although I think I had a pretty good understanding of what I was doing most of the time and was limited by mental ability to do long-term tasks. At least this applies throughout most of middle school. I think very quickly (by 4th? grade) python/js/similar languages were basically native to me.

WRT grinding olympiads I don't think my early exposure to CS really helped me a lot, except in allowing me to be able to implement most things more easily (at least starting out). Maybe not having trouble in impl was what made me able to improve faster without doing so many problems, though.

Olympiads have definitely helped my general programming ability, probably, just from being able to architect stuff properly and see simple ways to do things. Although it's probably made me lazier and less able to focus on long-term projects too.

-----

WRT math I honestly don't really know what happened, at some point in like 7th grade my dad started lecturing me on random stuff in calculus (i definitely didn't understand). but by 8th grade (probably from watching 3b1b) i think I had a good understanding of linalg and calculus. And by 9th grade I probably had a better understanding (likely a product of using it) plus knew some multivariate stuff. I know for sure I was definitely able to use calculus and linear algebra like a native language by around 9th grade. 

I think my fundamentals in math were sketchy too in like 8th grade but grinding comp math in 8th and 9th definitely fixed that.

-----

wrt my social life i think I was more-or-less antisocial and like didn't really have a social life until I started meeting olympiad kids. Even nowadays most of my friends are olympiad kids or similar. Probably, a lot of this can be attributed to being approximately the only person remotely interested in cs/math/etc instead of athletics/gaming/whatever throughout like all of middle school.

-----

Most of the above seems like, it would happen anyway somehow. Except hitting USACO Gold

Sometimes I wonder what would happen if benq decided to have a different point distro, or whatever, and I didn't get gold? It's quite probable that I would have been hardstuck silver for a few more contests, and lost the motivation to continue grinding. Perhaps I would go back to working on random projects, or do math, or like, do nothing at all? It just kinda feels weird that a nontrivial part of my life has been a result of skimming the cutoff...

I'm sure, that in an alternative worldline, I would still do ok, but perhaps differently.

-----

I guess, more or less, that now that I put it into writing that most of my progression feels natural-ish to me, with a bit of caveat that I just mentioned. Or at least, it makes sense that I would have done what I did, and everything feels more-or-less reasonable.

But there are definitely trade-offs, that I have made, implicitly or explicitly, that I will conclude with.

1. giving up music

    I used to play piano (quit very early) and also used to play in my school band (quit in high school). I probably should've stayed in like band for a year to fulfill arts credits and meet more people? but in general I don't really regret this, I don't think I would have had the time to continue to pursue music (unlike some people that i know). It would be nice but im not that good.

2. (school) academics vs. olympiads

    I've definitely weighed academics probably more than many other olympiad kids, and probably more than I should. I've had marked drops in academic perf during olympiad season, but sometimes I wish I did more olympiads in general and cared less about academics.

3. being in robotics

    kinda addressed already in my robotics blog. but I will say that doing robotics makes a lot of math stuff feel useful which is nice. Cons to doing robotics is that it's kinda mundane, but I guess I should do some ~~engineering~~ not-so-interesting stuff once in a while anyway.

4. doing projects vs olympiads

    I see a lot of people online doing projects / infinitely many sidequests or something. But I think doing olympiads has definitely strengthened my fundamentals in a way doing projects could not. As for actually doing them, I don't think I've really found anything that I'd really like to work on, that I still have motivation to work on. e.g. i tried building a raytracer following a tutorial but i just never touched it after a day or so. maybe too much like software engineering and not enough fun for me? idk

5. cs vs math or physics

    I think perhaps the biggest reason for sticking to CS rn is that I'm good at it? Probably has been the reason all along? I don't really know tbh.

    cs is nice though because it offers a way to think (ig you can find this in math but much later on). and abstraction is kinda built into this way of thought.

6. private vs public hs

    Sometimes I wish I could take linear algebra. I never really considered going to a private HS in middle school, so I never applied. In hindsight, this was the right choice, b/c my high school is just easier and I get more time to do whatever. And I really don't lose out that much on the student body, b/c our grade is really cracked (in our hs) for some reason.

wow i've covered (too) much of my life in this blog. it was definitely interesting to revisit some of what i did tho.

oh happy new year btw (most of this blog was a wip over a few days tho).